# Week 2

Time spent on the project: 17 hours

## Week 2 progress

Most of this week was spent on memorizing how to code with java (since it's been almost a year since last time) and implementing the diamond-square algorithm for height map creation. First I just read the general idea and tried to create the algorithm, but since it was not quite right (the created heightmap was not natural looking but instead almost symmetrical) I searched for an example and altered my algorithm a little based on that. I am quite happy with the result, but the example algorithm makes the height values wrap around the edges in the square step which I do not like. I may have to try and fix that next week. 

### Course progress

* Project uses jacoco and checkstyle
* Project core (heightmap) is ready

### Project progress

* Project structure: different packages for main class, graphic ui, logic and domain
* Heightmap is generated by diamond-square algorithm
* Heightmap is drawn on javafx canvas
* Some tests
* Colors for land and water
* Randomization on corner values
* Javadoc for all created classes
* Button for generating new maps
* Classes and arrays for water generation

## New things learned

This week was mostly bringing back old skills about java, javafx, JUnit and coding in general, but I also learned to make the diamond-square algorithm, altough I still need a better understanding of the square step, which is the hardest part of the algorithm because of the edges.

## Questions and problems

* I have not yet found a way to test the ProgramHandler class since I cannot create a new Stage element for the initializise method without getting an ExceptionInInitializerError. I have to look into that next week, maybe there is a simple solution
* Do we need to test the graphic ui also? Other courses I have been in did not demand it but I cannot 
find a mention about that in the course material (or maybe I am just blind).

## Next week

* Try if the diamond-square is better without edge wrapping
* Slider or selection for water level possibly
* Lakes and rivers, humidity?
* Make research concerning cities and roads
