# Project Definition

The aim of this project is to procedurally generate maps with somewhat natural terrain, rivers, biomes and roads. These could later be used as base layout for game worlds or other purposes. 


## Algorithms and data structures

### Algorithms and time complexity

#### Height map

Height map will be produced using the diamond-square algorithm, which may be editet if needed. It has a time-complexcity O(n^2) which is much faster than the Perlin noise algorithm (O(2^n)) which also is commonly used for this purpose. At first the sea will be added based on sea-level (everything below certain height will be water), but this may be adjusted in the future.

#### Lakes and rivers

Lakes will be assigned to random points and filled based on the height map. If an algorithm simulating water-circulation is implemented, then lakes will be generated by that. Rivers will be made by finding the shortest paths between sea, lakes and water sources and adjusting them so that water never flows upwards and everything looks natural.

#### Moisture, temperature and biomes

Moisture should decrease when moving away from water. Temperature should be calculated based on elevation and moisture and biomes assigned accordingly. The algorithm deciding the biome of a cell should therefore check the distance to nearest water, the elevation of the cell and and then get the correct biome from some datastructure. The time complexity will depend on the speed of the distance check, because the elevation can be read straightly from height map. 

#### Cities and roads

Algorithms for road network will be decided if this feature is implemented. City placement should be biased towards water, other cities and hills. Road network should not contain too long roads without cities in between. It is logical for roads to follow rivers where possible. 

### Data structures and space complexity

Most of the information can be saved in 2d integer, double or boolean arrays, since the maps will be based on a basic rectangular grid. If a hexagonal or other polynomial grid is implemented in the future, then some additional data structures may be needed. 

## Input and output

### Input

* Textures for drawing the landscape if textures other than colors are implemented
* Sea level?
* Average temperature? (would effect which biomes are in which height)
* Number of cities?

### Output
* A procedurally generated map
* A Graphic UI in which one can produce and save maps (as a picture?), and possibly affect some parameters to guide the production of a map.








